All right, so when last we spoke we were
talking a little bit about adding and
theming kind of when to when
to not use tailwind, and
the various ways that a button
kind of grows over time.
And this is actually a version
from our actual code base.
Two things I wanna point out here is just,
one,
the number of classes as your button kinda
grows to handle a bunch of other things.
And the number of buttons, we've got
the primary secondary destructive
that goes and we have one's existent
table header, an array of sizes.
We can see that even with
the tailwind utility classes,
it's a helpful way to
handle media queries,
but as you can still see, it kind of grows
a little bit out of control over time.
CSLX is one tool for
managing all the different styling and
stuff that you might have to worry
about through a design system.
There's another super interesting library
that we leverage heavily called a class
variance authority, that is a Loki joke
for those of you keeping track at home.
And it's a library that does a few things.
It allows you to kind of structure
your styles in a way that supports
this idea of having variants of a button
or anything else along those ways.
And it does a bunch of other really
interesting things that help when
you're building out
a design system as well.
The other thing that is a value prop is
that it is 100% framework agnostic, right?
There was a time where our code base for
our application was in Svelte and
SvelteKit and
our website was in react and next, right?
And so you can you share
components between the two?
And we saw the issue where our
dock site is still, in React and
we have a bunch of React
properties as well.
But the two big ones, that really needed
to share a lot of style listings,
were in two very different frameworks.
So having tooling that helps
the styling of your various components.
Because it's not just,
we have a marketing site and a core app,
the Venn diagram began to
overlap a little bit, right?
And so, for instance,
we now have a sign up flow that exists on
the marketing website and
drops you into the app, right?
So you have new and different demands, and
this is one of those stories about whether
you intend to or not, you actually
end up with a design system, right?
We had new and interesting demands where
we had to keep a consistent experience,
right, across different properties.
Implemented at the time in
different frameworks, right, and
still the next battle and we're not
probably converting the dock site because
it's just too hard to do that.
Immediately, we do need to spread our
design system across multiple frameworks.
So having tools that are framework
agnostic makes this really easy.
Yeah, maybe you need to have
a little bit of code that
triggers how a drop down menu
works in Svelte versus React.
But nobody wants to rewrite all
the styling and stuff along those lines.
So in being able to apply that
across is incredibly powerful.
And then also just the ability to like
separate it from your code makes it easier
to work with in general.
Anytime you find yourself working in
regular old JavaScript objects and
functions, everything from
unit testing to IntelliSense
to just everything becomes easier.
So it's again, one of these libraries,
I've not actually read the code to
see how much code it is but
could you write a tool like this yourself?
You probably could, but why would you when
you have shareholder value to go capture?
And something like this exists.
And so I'll show it to you, let's take a
tour of it because it's a lot to write, so
we're gonna kinda look at
it in a use-case thing.
We'll see it both in my kinda core app and
then we'll see a version of the button
that I also wrote that we'll bring
into our design system as well.
So this is the one that we
kinda have in our code base and
you'll see this roughly
similar at the end of the day.
So the first thing is CVA for
the class variants authority.
You can give it a string,
you can give it an array of classes, so
far not that much different than
what we had with, CLSX, right?
Where things become interesting, and
this is the only time I regret calling
that various button variants variant.
Because variants can be your size,
all these things but
also it's an overloaded term.
Where you can say, okay, well here's
the classes that make a primary button,
its current color and these BG interactive
that's for anything you touch, right?
When I told you we were moving to those
semantic colors and like the last section,
this is an example from you know,
our code base.
Interactive is like your buttons,
your various radio is the accent on a
radio thing, it's that kind of core color.
We still referenced white and
stuff like that.
We are still in the transition so
it took a lot to unwind
the initial choices there as well.
The idea of a danger color so
on and so forth.
But like you see so this is what
makes the primary button primary.
This was what makes a secondary button
secondary destructive destructive ghost
ghost, table header, so
on and so forth, right?
The sizes, these are the classes
that you might pick, right?
Other things that we might choose to do.
And then the default variance.
And what's really powerful with this is
we'll also kinda see it in React as well,
is there is basically two major
pieces to class variance story,
the function and this type variant props.
And I'm gonna talk about it now and
then we'll do it again in our code base so
that you see it twice.
cuz I think it takes two
mental spiritual passes.
So this function when we
create button styles, or
button variance is what we'll
call it in ours An then here,
you can actually create a type.
So how before we did that type,
okay, variant is primary, secondary,
destructive.
Size is like you just write
what the classes are and
it will generate a TypeScript
type that expects a variant,
a size, everything that
matches up with those classes.
And again, this code is felt,
we're gonna look at it and React and
you're gonna notice no difference.
And so now you have the ability to
separate all of the styling in your
codebase from the actual framework, and
you can use it across multiple Properties
you could use it in regular old like HTML.
I guess you need a little
bit of JavaScript in there.
Right, but you can use it across anything
you need and you get all of it kind
of like for free and we've got the, all
these are set for the type is a little bit
easier in react than it is in spelt for
it'll be easier and store in file.
But like, you get the basically and
we can export this and
share it across the code bases.